moving on uh the Palestinian diplomats
that have been urging world leaders to
back an immediate ceasefire continue
earlier I spoke to palestine's
ambassador to the United Nations Riyad
manso he called on the International
Community to take immediate action to
save civilian
lives we appreciate what the Secretary
General has been saying uh his statement
is very much in line with What was
decided in the 10th resumed emergency
session of the general assembly
he told us in a private meeting about a
week ago that he is calling for a
humanitarian ceasefire whatever that
means but ceasefire is acceptable
ceasefire is needed ceasefire has to be
put in place and hundreds of trucks of
uh humanitarian Aid including um Medical
Aid uh food water and of course uh you
need to have you know trucks of fuel in
order to help hospitals to be able to
function to take care of the wounded and
uh the sick people and the babies in
incubator and all the correct things
that the Secretary General has you know
emphasized and we hope that the security
Council and the International Community
not only listen carefully to what the
Secretary General saying but also to
honor it by implementing it and we
salute him for that principal position
and of course these are issues that
we've been following through the
conflict now you talk about the UN
Security Council they have been
convening behind closed doors a meeting
called by China and the United Arab
Emirates though there's no vote in any
shape or form the issue of the ceasefire
is very being very clearly debated and
talked about what do you hope will come
out of of this meeting well uh my
understanding that there is a growing
support for the call of a humanitarian
ceasefire now as the Secretary General
has articulated that we support this
call and we hope that those who are not
uh approving the implementation of that
call to change their minds the situation
is very dire there is a catastrophic
situation in the Gaza Strip and the
International Community has to elevate
itself to the requirement of what is
needed and the Secretary General is
leading that charge he is correct he is
right we should ablige him we should
agree with him and more importantly we
should Implement what he is calling for
and there are thousands of truckloads of
humanitarian assistance we need to see
hundreds of them to start making it to
the Gaza Strip all parts of the Gaza
Strip the north the South and the
midsection indeed and that has been a
view echoed by uh many politicians
diplomats and Aid agencies uh these past
few weeks but I could just take you back
the UN General Assembly very clearly
voted in favor of a humanitarian
ceasefire you're a seasoned Diplomat sir
you know how the system works can I just
ask you what the impact of that vote has
been
in the days after what sort of
conversations you've been having with
Sovereign diplomats from other countries
about the way that they voted especially
those that voted in favor of the
resolution that you were pushing for I
think that the fact that uh the general
assembly overwhelmingly voted in favor
by 121 votes against 14th in favor of
that resolution which contained the the
key component components of what the
Arab ambassadors and the Muslim
countries ambassadors pushed for mediate
sees Fire Stop The Killing save lives uh
allow for the uh uh you know
humanitarian assistance up to scale
meaning more than 100 truck loads every
day and stop the mass transfer it's a
crime against humanity all these
elements including protection of the
civilians were reflected in that
resolution and the great majority of the
community of Nations after 3 weeks
adopted that resolution which means that
that is the overwhelming position of the
International Community there is a
minority that is powerful that is not
listening to this position and we have
to continue with our efforts the efforts
of the Secretary General until they also
Al realign themselves with the position
of the general assembly L and start
implementing the content of that
resolution Ambassador let's not beat
around the bush when you talk about a
minority you're talking about the United
States what sort of pressure are you
putting on the US or can you put on the
US to listen to what you need I am not
uh pushing around the bush you know I
know that I am talking about that huge
elephant in the security Council which
is the United States of America it is
the last you know herdle before us and
before the International Community to
convince them to find a way that they
have to go along with the overwhelming
position of the International Community
because they are able to influence the
Israeli occupying authority to stop
these crimes that are taking place uh
you know on the Gaza Strip uh it is
difficult but still we are staying the
course and we are compounding our uh uh
efforts and pressure we are also
thinking of a few additional ideas
including ideas that South Africa is
taking the lead in referring uh the
issue of the investigation of the crimes
uh committed in the security Council to
the IC by a number of countries similar
to what was done in Ukraine and to add
the pressure through that you know uh
additional uh uh uh method of adding you
know to the pressure on particularly the
United States and that and Israel also
so that we can eventually see the
implementation of the content of the
general assembly resolution which is in
line with what the Secretary General of
the United Nations Antonio gues is
saying as well you mentioned South
Africa there sir um some countries
certainly mainly Latin American and now
we're seeing African uh countries
withdrawing their ambassadors from is
Israel just want to your reaction to
this it's happened within the last few
days it supports your position on the
Diplomatic front does it really have an
effect I think it does but what is
needed is more of these steps uh
countries at their National capacity are
capable of taking steps that will you
know add to the pressure on Israel to
stop these crimes uh for example you
know Oman uh suspended allowing you know
isra aircrafts from flying in their own
space uh that is also another practical
step there are a host many steps that
could be taken by countries in their
National capacity beside withdrawing
their ambassadors or severing diplomatic
relationship with Israel and they have
to start taking these steps so that they
can maximize the pressure on Israel to
stop these crimes committed against our
people in the Gaza Strip because killing
uh children and killing large number of
civilians is no justification for
anything killing 10,000 Palestinian
civilians and around 25,000 injured and
destroying 50% of the building is in the
Gaza Strip and starving uh in a
collective punishment in an entire
population destroying hospitals
depriving them of having the necessary
elements for saving lives are all crimes
against humanity and who whoever commit
these crimes should F account face
accountability and uh face you know the
punishment that they deserve for
committing such
crimes well let's cross over to Christen
slum standing by for us at un
headquarters where a security council
meeting is in session behind closed
doors U the security Council Kristen
we're finding it hard to come to an
agreement on a humanitarian pause or a
ceasefire resolution I mean when do you
think we might hear
movement on
this well there's not a lot of reason
for optimism here the Security Council
is holding its sixth meeting in the last
30 days on the subject they're on their
fifth draft resolution and have yet to
find agreement uh the meeting uh seems
to be wrapping up we may have more
information in a while but there's no
call for vote no resolution that's been
put forward this meeting was called by
the United Arab Emirates and China in
response to the attacks on Sunday of the
alifa hospital near the alifa hospital
uh the attacks ongoing on the jabalia
refugee camp uh China and UAE two
countries that have been calling for an
immediate ceasefire but that language is
tricky for many in the security Council
and uh coming up with wording that all
15 members can agree upon particularly
the five permanent members who have the
power to veto something that they don't
like has been an issue we know the
United States um vetoed one resolution
early on that called for humanitarian
pauses because it didn't have uh enough
language about Israel's right to defend
itself in it since then they've really
taken up the language of humanitarian
pauses and advocated for pauses going
forward saying a ceasefire uh would be
too blanket for for uh Hamas to be able
to regroup and rebuild itself and
reattach Israel um but supporting
efforts to get Aid into the country
other countries now seem uh to want
something stronger and again it takes a
minimum of nine countries and no veto
from one of the permanent five for
anything to pass and clearly we're not
there yet we'll continue to follow what
happens uh at the UN Security Council
with you Christen Simi there for us at
the UN
man bashara is Al senior political
analyst also following events with us
here in Doha a fifth draft resolution at
the UN wording veto no veto is
exasperating on the Diplomatic front and
for the public at large watching events
unfold no matter what their position is
they tend to think diplomats just can't
seem to get their act together what what
is the matter with the people that we
elect into Power absolutely there's
something deadly about it all like
literally deadly U the bureaucracy and
the and the extended discussions and the
differences among the member states both
in the UN Security Council and at the
general assembly is just so
frustrating and uh and even when that
all said and done right either the
United States is going to vet to it or
it's going to be so
meaningless that the United States might
allow it to pass but then
Israel will probably violate it and
accuse Hamas of having violating it so
while we could have something meaningful
a bit too late but I'm not sure how
effective it's going to be in the end of
the day because let's all remember that
uh there is no greater violator of of
international law and un resolutions
than Israel it has a history 50 60 years
history of of uh not abiding by un
resolutions including un security
resolutions I mean there are resolutions
from 1967
1973 uh resolution uh 247 and 338 that
talk about Israel's withdrawal from
occupied territories or from their
occupied territories and nothing
happened since so really all in all this
is this is uh you know this is
commendable I guess and it'll be
symbolic but unless this is followed
with some serious effort on the part of
of the countries in the region and
Beyond to render it more applicable and
actionable I think it will remain to be
meaningless and talking about the future
can hardly be you might say formulated
when they can't deal with the present
and we're seeing two senior us officials
in the region we've got the Secretary of
State and the head of the
CIA hopscotching around the Middle East
listening to Regional leaders being in
Regional capitals and hearing not only
just the frustration but the real anger
within the Middle East right now an
anger that hasn't been seen for decades
absolutely the thing is though soel it's
this is not just a classic diplomacy
this is sort of uh you know 18 19th
century diplomacy because the US the
United States dispatched two at the same
time it dispatched its aircraft carriers
and Naval um armadas to the Eastern
Mediterranean and dispatch it stop
foreign policy officials and CIA
director to the region so this is
gunboat diplomacy really more than
classic diplomacy in the sense that the
United States is telling its allies to
be at ease notably Israel and it's
putting its detractors on notice so this
is this is a threat and an ultimatum to
the countries in the region this is not
just a friendly visitors to the region
trying to advise and and be advised and
and and you know take on constructive
diplomatic work in the region this is
gunboard diplomacy of threats and
ultimatums and and and and in fact
threats of war in the region and that is
confronted by uh you know diplomatic
anger on the parts of a good number of
Arab governments and certainly the Arab
streate is perhaps in the vertue of
imploding in certain Arab countries
looking at the much wider perhaps issues
of the way diplomacy Works how much does
this undermine the US's position of
being you know the policemen of the
world when you have countries such as
China and Russia you know and growing
economies that are also you might say
pushing their muscle in a way that says
we are more than just an economic power
we are also political power we're seeing
countries align themselves more so with
China for example than ever before H how
much of a of a fissure is there
developing here you know the whole point
of us involvement in the Middle East
this time around was to say you know we
need to end this thing we need to create
some kind of a process towards a px
americ and an American peace in the
Middle East so that so that the United
States can kind of redeploy out of the
region in order to focus on China and
Russia and to focus on great power
politics but unfortunately the Biden
Administration has boxed
itself behind the netan government and
the Netanyahu government is proving to
be absolutely Reckless and absolutely
warmongering in the in the in this in
this in this issue and clearly they are
embarking on genocide in Gaza and it's
making the Biden Administration
complicit and that apparently is
threatening a wider Regional War so the
same Biden Administration that promised
to end the forever Wars that started
decades ago in the Middle East is
embarking it seems on yet another
adventure with no clear consequences or
end games it's maddening the way the
United States has box itself in instead
of being the grownup in the room and to
be able sort of to manage those
complicated issues and to be credible uh
mediator or sponsor it boxed itself in
behind Netanyahu and now it's probably
going to pay the price for it we shall
see what does happen for the moment
Bashar there our senior political
analyst thank you